## ததஅக

[ i ]  
  
third letter and vowel of the tamilalphabet  
the close front lax unround vowel intamil; மூன்றுமுயிரெழுத்து  
symbol for the fraction ½  
whichsymbol is now usu. written as > in tamil arithmetics; அரை யென்னும் எண்ணின்குறி  
part  
1. (a) euphonic prothesisof the nature of an onglide in sanskritic wordsbeginning with ய  
ர  
ல  
as in இயந்திரம் forயந்திரம்  
இராகம் for ராகம்  
இலங்கை for லங்கை.(b) euphonic medial anaptyxis coming in sanskritic words in order to separate conjunct consonantal sounds of which the latter parthappens to be `y  
`r  
`l  
as in வாக்கியம்  
கிரமம்  
சுக்கிலம். (நன். 149.) (c) the halfvowel soundof the close front lax unrounded vowel  
heard inthe sentence sandhi when the halfroundedclose lax backvowel at the end of a wordcombines with the initial semivowel `y of thenext word beginning with `ய  
as in குரங்கியாது.(நன். 93.) (d) a glide sound coming in externalsandhi between the absolute final consonantalsounds `ñ  
`n  
`m  
`ṉ  
`v  
`ḻ and`ḷ  
and the initial `y of words beginning withthe semivowel sound  
as in மண்ணியாது  
`manniyātu. (நன். 206.)  
2. demonstr.; (a) prefixvowel found in the base of the demonstr.pron. expressing the nearer or proximate person or thing; ஒர் அகச்சுட்டு. இவன்; (b) demonstr. pref. qualifying any noun expressingnearness; புறச்சுட்டு. இக்கொற்றன்  
3. nounending: (a) sing. of the rational and irrationalsubstantive in the three genders  
as in செவியிலி; இருதிணைமுக்கூற்றொருமை விகுதி; (b) masc. sing.  
asin வில்லி; (c) fem. sing.  
as in கூனி; (d) neut. sing.  
as in நாற்காலி; (e) expressing that which acts  
as in அலரி; வினைமுதற் பொருள் விகுதி; (f) expressing that which is acted upon  
as in ஊருணி; செயப்படுபொருள் விகுதி; (g) expressing the instrument  
as in மண்வெட்டி; கருவிப்பொருள் விகுதி  
4. verb ending: (a) 2nd pers. sing. fut.  
as inவருதி; எதிர்கால முன்னிலை யொருமை விகுதி; (b)imp. sing.  
as in செல்லுதி; ஏவலொருமை விகுதி; (c) opt. sing.  
as in காட்டி; வியங்கோள் விகுதி.(சீவக. 466); (d) vbl. pple.  
as in ஒடி; வினையெச்ச விகுதி  
5. ending of vbl. nouns  
asin வெகுளி; தொழிற்பெயர் விகுதி. (திருக்கோ. 151  
உரை.)  
6. expletive ending  
as in உருளி; பகுதிப்பொருள் விகுதி. (சீவக. 532.)  
பெ. (astrol.) letter representing owl  
in pañcapaṭci; பஞ்சபட்சிகளுள் ஆந்தையைக் குறிக்கும் எழுத்து. (பிங்.)  
demonstrative prefix  
this  
இந்த. as to combine. பார்.   
அ dem. note இப்பால்  
இம்மாத்திரம்  
இத்தனை  
இவ் வளவு  
etc. are combinations;  
2. a feminine appell  
termination as  
கூனி;  
3. பார். any grammar for other terminations  
உயர்திணைப் படர்க்கை யொரு மைவிகுதி  
சுட்டு  
பெண்பால் விகுதி  
முன்னிலை யொருமை விகுதி  
ஓரெழுத்து  
முப்பாலொருமை முன்னிலைவினைவிகுதி (உம்) உண்டி  
முப்பாலொருமை முன் னிலையேவல் விகுதி  
(உம்) கேட்டி  
உயர் திணைப் பெண் பாலொருமைப் படர்க்கைப் பெயர் விகுதி  
(உம்) குறத்தி  
உயர்திணை யாண்பாற்படர்க்கை யொருமைப் பெயர்விகுதி  
(உம்) வில்லி  
அஃறி ணைப் படர்க்கை யொருமைப் பெயர் விகுதி  
(உம்) ஊருணி  
விரவுத்திணையொருமைப் பெயர் விகுதி  
(உம்) செவியிலி