## ததஅக

[ tīṭcai ]  
  
தீக்ஷை  
தீக்கை  
s. initiation of a disciple into the religion by a guru  
the teaching of a mystic character  
தீக்ஷைதீக்கை  
s. initia tion of disciple into the siva religion by a guru  
who with appropriate ceremonies communicates the appointed mantras; also his introduction to any higher stage or degree in the system; குரூபதேசம்  
2. special means employed by a guru for the instruction and mental illumination of a disciple; intended for the removal of his sins  
and the ripening of his soul for emancipation  
ஞானபோதனை  
3. the imparting of spiritual illumination to a soul ripening for absorption; its accu mulated stock of merit and demeritthe results of former actionstogether with its original மலம்the source of these actionsbeing nearly exhausted by the joys and sufferings experienced in its former transmigrations  
பக்குவான்மாவைக்க ரையேற்றல்  
4. performance of a course of austerities  
விரதநியமம்  
5. performance of vows  
சங்கற்பம். w. p  
41. deeksha. note. there are seven kinds of தீட்சை  
1. சட்சுதீட்சை  
சயனதீட்சை  
by the eye or by looking on the disciple for the dis persion of his mental darkness and moral evils  
and the communication of spiritual light  
2. பரிசதீட்சை  
by the touch  
or placing the right hand on the disciples head  
and touching five principle parts of his body  
thus conferring on him the virtue of the five lettered incantations  
3. வாக்குத்தீட்சை  
வாசகதீட்சை  
oral instruc tion  
and illumination  
4. மானசதீட்சை  
by the mind or intense interest felt for the disciple  
leading to the enlightening of his mind  
c  
5. சாத்திரதீட்சை  
நூற்றீட்சை  
spiritual illumination by means of the shastras  
6. யோகதீட்சை  
பாவனதீட்சை  
in struction by example  
in character of the silent  
motionless ascetic  
in the eight postures prescribed. (பார். யோகம்.)  
7. அ வுத்திரிதீட்சை  
imparting instruction by symbolic figures  
made on the ground  
c. this last is twofold  
ஞானாவுத்திரி  
and கிரியாவுத்திரி.note. there are two other kinds of தீட்சை;  
1. சபீசதீட்சை  
instruction that has reference to future rites to make them complete;  
2. நிர்ப்பீசதீட்சை  
instruction complete in itself  
உபதேசம்