## ததஅக

[ tāṉ ]  
  
[k. tān.]  
pron  
1. he  
she orit; படர்க்கை யொருமைப்பெயர். தன்னைத் தலையாகச்செய்வானுந் தான் (நாலடி  
248)  
2. oneself; சுயம். தானாகப் படித்தவன்.part  
1. a wordused as intensive; தேற்றச்சொல். உனைத் தான்நோக்கி நிற்கும் (வெங்கைக்கோ. 41)  
2. expletiveaffixed to any noun or pronoun anddeclined instead of it; அசைச்சொல். தாந்தான்கின்று நின்றசைமொழி (நன். 441).conj. besides; அதுவன்றி இஃது ஒன்று என்று பொருள்படுவதோர்இடைச்சொல். (திருக்கோ. 3  
refl. pron. (gen. தன்  
தனது  
acc. தன்னை  
dat. தனக்கு  
honor  
தாம்  
பன். தாம்  
தங்கள்) himself  
herself  
itself;  
2. an emphat  
particle signifynig indeed  
certainly or expressing personal identity சுயம்;  
3. an expletive  
s. (for.) an entire piece of cloth  
முழுப்புடவை  
[obl. தன் ]  
avantaan அவன்தான் himself  
itself (resumptive pronoun)  
the reciprocal pronoun  
himself  
itself  
the genitive being தன்; in composition sometimes தற்  
2. ones self  
3. an emphatic or intensive particle  
signifying indeed  
really  
certainly  
தேற் றச்சொல்; as அப்படித்தான்  
it is so. (c.)  
4. an expletive  
or அசைச்சொல் suffix ed to any noun or pronoun of any person  
and declined instead of it  
as நிலந்தனைக்கொத்தினான்  
he dug the earth  
5. personal identity  
சுயம். (p.)note. according to the agamas  
the soul is the person or being  
and the body and mind with their powers and faculties  
are merely adventitious; being the fruit of actions  
c. தானேவளர்ந்துதவத்தால்கொடியெடுத்தவன். one who has grown great and become famous of himself through meritorious austeri ties; often used of one who has risen by the kindness of another  
but forgotten his benefactor. தானொருவனுமேதனியாகவந்தான். he only came  
he came alone. தான்சாகாமருந்துதின்னலாமா. may any one take medicine to kill himself? தானுள்ளபோதுலோகம். the world is ones while he lives. தானாக்கனியாததுதடிகொண்டடித்தால்கனியுமா. will a fruit  
not ripening of itself  
ripen by being beaten with a stick? தானுந்தலைவனும். the soul and god. நீதான். you yourself  
you certainly. அவன்றன்னைக்கண்டேன். i saw him. (p.) அவன்றான். he himself; he certainly  
truly  
s. (for.) an entire piece of cotton or any other cloth  
(c.)  
அசைச்சொல்  
(உம்) நீதான்