## ததஅக

[ eccil ]  
  
எச்சி  
s. (எஞ்சு) remains of food  
deemed defiled by contact with the mouth  
spittle  
saliva  
மிச்சில்;  
2. excretions from the body as urine  
semen  
faeces  
எச்சம்  
s. remains  
or refuse of food  
crumbs  
orts (deemed impure)  
சேஷம்  
2. any thing defiled by contact with the mouth  
c.  
மிச்சில்; [ex எஞ்சு.]  
எச்சிற்கையாற்காக்கையுமோட்டான். he will not even scare away a crow with his hand while eating  
lest any grain of rice fall thereby. எச்சிலாக்கஎச்சிற்படுத்த  
inf. to defile food or any thing  
by bringing it into contact with the mouth; to defile food by the hand  
or spoon in feeding  
உச்சிட்டப்படுத்த  
2. to deflour a woman  
deprive a damsel of her virginity  
either by force or with consent  
கன்னிமைகெடுக்க. எச்சிலார்  
s. lowcaste people  
இழிஞர். (p.) எச்சிலிலைஎச்சிற்கல்லை  
s. the leaf on which one has eaten. எச்சிலுமியஎச்சிலுமிழஎச்சில் துப்ப  
inf. to spit. (c.) எச்சில்வாய்  
s. mouth unwashed after eating  
கழுவாதவாய். எச்சிற்கலக்க  
inf. to eat the food left by the bridegroomas a hindu bride does on the occasion of her marriage  
2. to eat the food left by othersas friends. எச்சிற்கலப்பு  
s. the above cere mony. எச்சிற்காறியுமிழ்  
inf. to force up the phlegm and spit it out. எச்சிற்கிதம்பாட  
inf. to assent to what is wrong from an unworthy motive. எச்சிற்குழி  
s. a cavity in a courtyard  
used as a spittoon  
எச்சில் போடுங்குழி. எச்சிற்பட  
inf. to become de filedas food  
by saliva  
or contact with the mouth. எச்சிற்பருக்கை  
s. grains of rice fallen while eating  
சிந்திக்கிடக்குஞ்சோறு. எச்சிற்பேய்  
s. a diminutive de mon exceedingly voracious  
ஓர்பிசாசம்  
2. a person very fond of dainties  
பெ ருந்தீனிக்காரன். எச்சிற்றழும்புஎச்சிற்றேமல்  
s. a kind of ringworm supposed to be in duced by contact with the saliva of others  
தழுதணை. எச்சின்மாற்ற  
inf. to purify a place after eating by smearing it anew with cowdung. கண்ணெச்சில்  
s. evil imagined to be caused by other peoples eyes. கண்ணெச்சிற்கழிக்க  
inf. to per form a ceremony for the removal of the imagined inauspicious effect of evil eyes. (நைட.)  
உச்சிட்டம்