## ததஅக

[ eṭṭu ]  
  
பெ. [t. enimidi  
k. eṇṭu  
m.eṭṭu  
tu. eṇma.]  
1. the number eight; அ என்னும் எண்  
2. ceremony performed in honourof a deceased on the eighth day after his death; இறந்தவர்களுக்கு எட்டாநாளிற் செய்யுங்கிரியை. loc  
எட்டுக்கண்விட்டெறிதல் eṭṭukkaṇviṭṭeṟi  
வி. intr. எட்டு to exercise authorityeverywhere as if one had eight eyes; to havevery wide influence; எங்குந் தன் அதிகாரஞ்செல்லுதல்  
பெ. எட்டு. step; அடிவைப்பு.இரண்டு எட்டில் போய்விடுவேன். colloq  
s. eight;  
2. the 8th day of a funeral ceremony. in combination it is often contracted into எண்  
iii. வி. t. stretch forth  
reach at  
தாவு; வி. i. (with dat.) be within reach; be obtained  
அகப்படு;  
3. go further;  
4. be within mental grasp  
within the powers of comprehension  
3. ettu எட்டு reach  
reach for (with hand  
etc.)  
ettu எட்டு eight  
s. the number eight denoted by அ  
ஓரெண்  
2. the eighth day funeral ceremony when food is presented to the manes of a deceased person  
இறந்தஎட்டாம் நாட்சடங்கு; it is often contracted to எண்  
3. desire  
ஆசை  
impr. for எட்டை. எட்டிலேபத்திலே. seldom  
now and then. எட்டுக்குச்சோறிட்டுவைக்க. [prov.]  
to set rice  
curry and other eatables for the de ceased in the eighth day ceremonyas எட்டாந்துக்கங்கொண்டாட. எட்டுமிரண்டுமறியாதவன். a very dolt  
an ignoramus  
கிறேன்  
எட்டினேன்  
வேன்  
எட்ட  
வி. a. to stretch forth  
to reach after  
தாவ  
2. [with the dative.]  
to be obtained  
be got  
to be caught  
அகப்பட. எட்டாதபூதேவனுக்கு. the flower that is out of reach is dedicated to god. [prov.]  
மனோவாக்குக்கெட்டாதது. what is incom prehensible or unutterable. கைக்கெட்டினதுவாய்க்கெட்டாமற்போயிற்று. the mouth did not get what the hand had reachedi almost got it  
but it escaped my grasp. the fates were against me  
c. spoken in cases of disappointment  
c. கண்ணுக்கெட்டினமட்டும். as far as the eye can பார். . எனக்கெட்டாது. i cannot reach it  
2. i cannot get it  
2. i cannot comprehend it. கிணற்றுக்கிந்தக்கயிறெட்டாது. this rope is not long enough for the well  
அட்டம்  
எட்டென் னேவல்  
சாச்சடங்கினொன்று