## ததஅக

[ mēru ]  
  
பெ. mēru.   
1. the goldenmountain round which the planets are said torevolve  
believed to be the centre of the sevendvīpas; சத்ததீவுகளின் மத்தியபாகத்திலுள்ளதும்கிரகங்கள் சுற்றிவருவதாகக் கருதப்படுவதுமானபொன்மலை. மாநிலத் திடைநின் றோங்கிய நெடுநிலைமேரு (சிலப். 28  
48).   
2. mountain; மலை. (யாழ்.அக.)   
3. ornamental globular top  
as of a car; தேர் முதலியவற்றின் சிகரத்தில் அலங்காரமாயமைந்தகுடம்.   
4. top or ridge of a sloping roof; சாய்ந்தகூரையின் உச்சி. loc.   
5. பார். மேருமணி. loc. 6.a temple 1000 hands wide and 1000 hands highwith 1000 domes and 125 floors; ஆயிரஞ் சிகரங்களையும் நூற்றிருபத்தைந்து மேனிலைக்கட்டுக்களையுமுடையதாய் ஆயிரமுழம் அகலத்தையும் அவ்வளவுஉயரத்தையுங் கொண்டு விளங்குங் கோயில். (சுக்கிரநீதி  
229.)   
7. pudendum muliebre; பெண்குறி.(கொக்கோ. 1  
17.)   
8. sitting plank; ஆசனப்பலகை. (யாழ். அக.)   
9. the mystical diagram ofšrīcakram  
made in relief; 											்ரீசக்ர யந்திரம். 10.carboy  
jar  
big bottle of rosewater; பன்னீர்ச்சாடிவகை. (யாழ். அக.)  
s. a fabulous mountain in the centre of the earth  
மகாமேரு;   
2. a mount  
a mountain  
மலை;   
3. the topseat of an idol in a car;   
4. (in geogr) axis  
நாராசம்  
s. a fabulous mountain said to be situated in the centre of the earth called also மகாமேரு  
and பொன்மலை.   
2. mount  
mountain  
a hill in general  
மலை. (சது.)   
3. the topseat of an idol in a car  
தே ரின்மேலாசனம்.   
4. [in geogr.]  
axis.note. mount meru is supposed by the hindus to be in the centre of the seven dwipas  
or circular continents  
and is compared to the பார். dvessel of a lotus  
the leaves of which are the different dwipas. its height is   
84. yojanas are 1  
92  
miles  
according to the common reckon ing  
of which 16  
yojanas are below the surface of the earth. it has four facesone towards each point of the compassthat looking to the east is white; to the south  
yellow; to the west  
black; and to the north  
red. the sacred ganges falls from heaven on its summit  
and flows in four streamslike those from the garden of eden; the ganges proper going south  
the bha drasona  
north into tartary  
the sita  
east and the oxus. west the regents of the cardinal points occupy  
severally each face. stripped of fable this mount is probably either the hymalaya  
including the highlands of tartary to the north; or  
as understood by some brahmans  
the north pole. the brahmans speak of su meru and kumeru  
and these are said to be the poles or the zenith and nadir of the residence of the gods. மேருவைச்சார்ந்த காகமும்பொன்னிறம். even a crow which resorts to mount meru [will become]  
goldcolored. [prov.]  
ஆசனபீடம்  
ஓர்வகைக் குப்பி  
பொன்மலை  
மலை